# Ethiopia-ABM
Instructions for how to reproduce the analysis
This study involves use of a seasonal precipitation prediction and local crop production data in an agent-based model. In order to reproduce the analyses, researchers need access to the following components: (1) the input files, (2) the agent-based model, and (3) the codes to generate figures used in the analysis/manuscript. All of the necessary files are available online at https://github.com/wss-wisc/Ethiopia-ABM. More description for each component follows:
1.	The input files used for this project comes from CHIRPS data freely accessible online at https://www.chc.ucsb.edu/data/chirps. The precipitation data was used to build a seasonal precipitation forecast for the local area (Alexander et al., 2019) and the historical predictions and skill are provided. Local crop production data was shared by collaborators in Ethiopia. All input files are included as .csv inputs on the GitHub repository (crop information for maize and teff, observed precipitation, predicted precipitation, and prediction skill).

2.	The agent-based model, which was written by researchers at the University of Wisconsin – Madison (the authors of this text) using the NetLogo software. The name of this file is “AlexanderBlock_ABM_2021.nlogo”. Four different simulations were performed, as described in the manuscript. To run each respective simulation, follow the instructions in the code comments to include/omit sections of the code as relevant. To run simulations across bootstrapped forecasts and different random seeds, the BehaviorSpace feature was used. The resulting outputs were then imported to Matlab to generate figures and analyze results.

3.	The Matlab code to analyze output and generate figures. The code needed to import the NetLogo output in .csv format, perform analysis, and generate figures is included under the file name “AlexanderBlock_FigureCode.” The code sections are separated by figure in the manuscript, with comments to guide the reader.

Once researchers have all the necessary data components from the GitHub repository, the analyses should be able to be reproduced. For further details on the model setup, procedure, etc. please refer to the manuscript text ODD protocol.

